**Tested on Ubuntu 20.04LTS amdx64 platform**

Put the gpsvario into wifi server mode, connect to the WiFi access point
`ESP32GpsVario`, and download the binary datalog file using the url  http://esp32.local

The datalog may contain a combination of high-speed IBG (IMU+Baro+GPS) data logs and 
normal GPS track logs. Use the logsplit software to split the file into separate IBG and GPS
data logs.

`gpslog2gpx` will convert a GPS binary log file into a `.gpx` text file that you
can load in Google Earth or other GPS track visualization software.
```
gcc -o gpslog2gpx gpslog2gpx.c
./gpslog2gpx ~/Downloads/datalog
```
The IBG datalogs also contain gps fix data, so this code can be used to convert the gps fix data into gpx files that you can open in Google Earth or other 3D track visualization software. 

In Google Earth, remember to
uncheck the "clamp to ground" option when opening the .gpx file if you want to see the track in 3D.
```
gcc -o ibglog2gpx ibglog2gpx.c
./ibglog2gpx ~/Downloads/datalog
```
Display the IBG data in text format
```
gcc -o parseIBG parseIBG.c
./parseIBG ~/Downloads/datalog
```
`ibglogsplit` is used to split the downloaded binary datalog file into separate logs.
In this example, timestamps that are separated by more than 300mS result in a
separate log file being generated. Output files are `~/Downloads/datalog_00, ...` 
```
gcc -o ibglogsplit ibglogsplit.c
./ibglogsplit ~/Downloads/datalog 300     
```
Compute the real-time orientation quaternion from the IBG datalog. Use `quatsee.py`
to visualize the orientation
```
gcc -o ibglog2quat ibglog2quat.c imu.c -lm
./ibglog2quat ~/Downloads/datalog
```
`logsplit` separates ibg logs wherever the timestamp of two consecutive log entries differs by more 
than the specified value in milliseconds (e.g. 300). Also splits wherever there is a change from ibg log to gps track log or vice versa.
```
gcc -o logsplit logsplit.c
./logsplit ~/Downloads/datalog 300     
```
`testmar2` is an example of off-line analysis of a high-speed IBG data log. 
```
gcc -o testmar2 testmar2.c kalmanfilter3.c imu.c ringbuf.c -lm
./testmar2 ~/Downloads/datalog-mar2
```
`testroute` tests the validity of a FormatGEO waypoint file generated by [xcplanner](
https://github.com/dkm/xcplanner). 

xcplanner does not specify waypoint radii in the route file. You can edit the
`.wpt` file to add a waypoint radius (in meters) at the end of a waypoint description line. 
If there is no waypoint radius specified for a waypoint, the gpsvario will assign a 
user-configurable waypoint radius. Once you have validated the .wpt file, you can upload
it to the gpsvario using the webpage server `upload file` button.
```
gcc -o testroute testroute.c -lm
./testroute example.wpt
```